---
layout: post
title: "dualbooting suckless linux with windows"
category: linux
---

### preface: breaking away from suckless-style software

Since I began using Arch Linux in 2021, [suckless-style](https://suckless.org/philosophy) software has been my go-to for reliable software. Even in the earliest days of using the dwm-st-dmenu trinity to handle many of my graphical needs, I was not put off by the lack of ease-of-use features the philosophy sacrifices in order to maintain the dream of minimal software. Although Suckless's design patterns are rarely used outside of their own community, the tools created using their philosophy have kept my systems slim on bloat and have contributed days of additional productive activity which would have otherwise been wasted inside of a poorly-designed menu system or reading documentation for yet another configuration schema. In fact, the dogmatic requirement of configuration through `config.h` kept dot-files out of my home directory and created a mental barrier for implementing bloat into my system; until recently, I have needed to put zero effort into maintaining my window manager, terminal, or application launcher (the same cannot be said for Windows installations during the same time period).

The three utilities at the core of the Suckless ecosystem and the purest examples of suckless design -- dwm, st, and dmenu -- had the most profound impact on software development during their use than any other software. In their categories, these applications are unparalleled for their intended usage; simple tools designed for active use in a software development environment. Unfortunately, modern usage of computing extend outside of managing windows, editing text in a terminal, and launching applications. As time went on while I was using my previous setup, tasks outside of this domain began to take up a larger quantity of time than they had before; specifically, browser-centric applications and cross-play with different development environment configurations both ate away at the pragmatism which had existed prior. In theory, both of these problems had options to work around the limitations which created them in the first place, whether it be through an addition to the existing system or a modification to my development practices; in practice, the first of these options came at a great cost to system usability and the second option was error-prone since each case had to be independently handled. Ultimately, it became difficult to adhere to the Suckless philosophy in the long-term due to examples of ["sucks"](https://suckless.org/sucks/) or ["harmful"](https://harmful.cat-v.org) software operating along with the "pure" software which had existed prior.
